Göteborg Bit Factory                                                  June 2013

                             Taskserver Extensions
                                   Version 1


Status of this Memo

   This document provides information for the Internet community.  It does not
   specify an Internet standard of any kind.  Distribution of this document is
   not restricted.


Copyright Notice

   Copyright (C) 2010 - 2013, Göteborg Bit Factory.


Abstract

   Taskserver Extensions are not supported in release 1.x.  This document is a
   placeholder.


Table of Contents

   1      Introduction
   1.1      Requirements

   X      Events
   X      Hooks

   X      References
   2      Authors' Addresses
   3      Full Copyright Statement


1  Introduction

   The Taskserver will support extensions in the form of executable scripts
   that are run when certain events occur.  The server will define a set of
   events (data modified, new user added ...) and extensions will be able to
   hook into the events.

   Server capabilities will be enhanced by these extensions, which will likely
   provide:

      Reminders for due tasks
      Spelling correction for task descriptions
      Functionality triggered by the presence of particular tags


1.1  Requirements

   In this document, we adopt the convention discussed in Section 1.3.2 of
   [RFC1122] of using the capitalized words MUST, REQUIRED, SHOULD, RECOMMENDED,
   MAY, and OPTIONAL to define the significance of each particular requirement
   specified in this document.

   In brief: "MUST" (or "REQUIRED") means that the item is an absolute
   requirement of the specification; "SHOULD" (or "RECOMMENDED") means there may
   exist valid reasons for ignoring this item, but the full implications should
   be understood before doing so; and "MAY" (or "OPTIONAL") means that this item
   is optional, and may be omitted without careful consideration.


X  Events


X  Hooks


X  References

   [RFC1122] IETF, "Requirements for Internet Hosts - Communication
        Layers", October 1989.


2  Authors' Addresses

   Paul Beckingham
   Email: paul@taskwarrior.org

   Federico Hernandez
   Email: fredde@taskwarrior.org


3  Full Copyright Statement

   Copyright 2010 - 2013, Göteborg Bit Factory.
   All rights reserved.

   This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to others,
   and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it or assist in its
   implementation may be prepared, copied, published and distributed, in whole
   or in part, without restriction of any kind, provided that the above
   copyright notice and this paragraph are included on all such copies and
   derivative works.  However, this document itself may not be modified in any
   way, such as by removing the copyright notice or by omission of certain
   sections.

   The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be revoked
   by the authors or their successors or assigns.

   This document and the information contained herein is provided on an "AS IS"
   basis and the authors disclaim all warranties, express or implied, including
   but not limited to any warranty that the use of the information herein will
   not infringe any rights or any implied warranties of merchantability or
   fitness for a particular purpose.

---

