Göteborg Bit Factory                                               October 2012

                                     Title
                                   Version 1


Status of this Memo

   This document provides information for the Internet community.  It does not
   specify an Internet standard of any kind.  Distribution of this document is
   not restricted.


Copyright Notice

   Copyright (C) 2010 - 2012, Göteborg Bit Factory.


Abstract

   This document is ...


Table of Contents

   1      Introduction
   1.1    Requirements

   9      References
   10     Acknowledgements
   11     Authors' Addresses
   12     Full Copyright Statement


1  Introduction

   For many years ...


1.1  Requirements

   In this document, we adopt the convention discussed in Section 1.3.2 of
   [RFC1122] of using the capitalized words MUST, REQUIRED, SHOULD, RECOMMENDED,
   MAY, and OPTIONAL to define the significance of each particular requirement
   specified in this document.

   In brief: "MUST" (or "REQUIRED") means that the item is an absolute
   requirement of the specification; "SHOULD" (or "RECOMMENDED") means there may
   exist valid reasons for ignoring this item, but the full implications should
   be understood before doing so; and "MAY" (or "OPTIONAL") means that his item
   is optional, and may be omitted without careful consideration.


9  References
 
   [RFC640] Postel, J., "Revised FTP Reply Codes", RFC 640, June,
        1975.


10  Acknowledgements

   Thanks to ... for testing and feedback.

   Thanks to ... whose comments helped improve this document.


11  Authors' Addresses

   Federico Hernandez
   Email: fredde@yootabory.org

   Paul Beckingham
   Email: paul@yootabory.org


12  Full Copyright Statement

   Copyright 2010 - 2012, Göteborg Bit Factory.
   All rights reserved.

   This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to others,
   and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it or assist in its
   implmentation may be prepared, copied, published and distributed, in whole or
   in part, without restriction of any kind, provided that the above copyright
   notice and this paragraph are included on all such copies and derivative
   works.  However, this document itself may not be modified in any way, such as
   by removing the copyright notice or by ommission of certain sections.

   The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be revoked
   by the authors or their successors or assigns.

   This document and the information contained herein is provided on an "AS IS"
   basis and the authors disclaim all warranties, express or implied, including
   but not limited to any warranty that the use of the information herein will
   not infringe any rights or any implied warranties of merchantability or
   fitness for a particular purpose.

---

